README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/graphicalMCP)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=graphicalMCP)

<!-- badges: end -->

# graphicalMCP <a href="https://gilead-biostats.github.io/graphicalMCP/"><img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" height="139" /></a>

# Introduction

Graphical approaches for multiple comparison procedures (MCPs) are a
general framework to control the family-wise error rate strongly at a
pre-specified significance level $0<\alpha<1$. This approach includes
many commonly used MCPs as special cases and is transparent in
visualizing MCPs for better communications. `graphicalMCP` is designed
to design and analyze graphical MCPs in a flexible, informative and
efficient way.

# Installation

`graphicalMCP` is currently not on CRAN but can be installed from GitHub
using the following code:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak("Gilead-BioStats/graphicalMCP")
```

# Documentation

-   For basic usage instructions, see `vignette("graphicalMCP")`
-   To become familiar with graphical MCP terminologies, see
    `vignette("glossary")`
-   To learn examples of how to use `graphicalMCP`,
    -   see `vignette("shortcut-testing")` for sequentially rejective
        graphical multiple comparison procedures based on Bonferroni
        tests
    -   see `vignette("closed-testing")` for graphical multiple
        comparison procedures based on the closure principle
    -   see `vignette("graph-examples")` for common multiple comparison
        procedures illustrated using `graphicalMCP`
    -   see `vignette("generate-closure")` for rationales to generate
        the closure and the weighting strategy of a graph
    -   see `vignette("comparisons")` for comparisons to other R
        packages
-   To view vignettes in R after properly installing `graphicalMCP` from
    GitHub, we can build vignettes by
    `devtools::install(build_vignettes = TRUE)`, and then use
    `browseVignettes("graphicalMCP")` to view the full list of vignettes

# Related work

-   Graphical MCPs - [gMCP](https://cran.r-project.org/package=gMCP)
-   Lighter version of `gMCP` which removes the rJava dependency -
    [gMCPLite](https://cran.r-project.org/package=gMCPLite)
-   Graphical MCPs with Simes tests -
    [lrstat](https://cran.r-project.org/package=lrstat)

Built upon these packages, we hope to implement graphical MCPs in a more
general framework, with fewer dependencies and simpler S3 classes, and
without losing computational efficiency.

# Acknowledgments

Along with the authors and contributors, thanks to the following people
for their suggestions and inspirations on the package:

Frank Bretz, Willi Maurer, Ekkehard Glimm, Nan Chen, Jeremy Wildfire,
Spencer Childress, Colleen McLaughlin, Matt Roumaya, Chelsea Dickens,
and Ron Yu

We owe a debt of gratitude to the authors of
[gMCP](https://cran.r-project.org/package=gMCP) for their pioneering
work, without which this package would not be nearly as extensive as it
is.

Commit message:

transfer to openpharma
updated links and version

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable
state and is being actively
developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/graphicalMCP)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=graphicalMCP)
[![CRAN monthly
downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/graphicalMCP)](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/graphicalMCP)
[![CRAN total
downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/graphicalMCP)](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/graphicalMCP)
<!-- [![Code Coverage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openpharma/graphicalMCP/_xml_coverage_reports/data/main/badge.svg)](https://openpharma.github.io/graphicalMCP/latest-tag/coverage-report/) -->

<!-- badges: end -->

# graphicalMCP <a href="https://openpharma.github.io/graphicalMCP/"><img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" height="139" /></a>

# Introduction

Graphical approaches for multiple comparison procedures (MCPs) are a
general framework to control the family-wise error rate strongly at a
pre-specified significance level $0<\alpha<1$. This approach includes
many commonly used MCPs as special cases and is transparent in
visualizing MCPs for better communications. `graphicalMCP` is designed
to design and analyze graphical MCPs in a flexible, informative and
efficient way.

# Installation

### Release

You can install the current release version from *CRAN* with:

``` r
install.packages("graphicalMCP")
```

### Development

You can install the current development version from *GitHub* with:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak("openpharma/graphicalMCP")
```

# Documentation

-   For basic usage instructions, see `vignette("graphicalMCP")`
-   To become familiar with graphical MCP terminologies, see
    `vignette("glossary")`
-   To learn examples of how to use `graphicalMCP`,
    -   see `vignette("shortcut-testing")` for sequentially rejective
        graphical multiple comparison procedures based on Bonferroni
        tests
    -   see `vignette("closed-testing")` for graphical multiple
        comparison procedures based on the closure principle
    -   see `vignette("graph-examples")` for common multiple comparison
        procedures illustrated using `graphicalMCP`
    -   see `vignette("generate-closure")` for rationales to generate
        the closure and the weighting strategy of a graph
    -   see `vignette("comparisons")` for comparisons to other R
        packages
-   To view vignettes in R after properly installing `graphicalMCP`, we
    can build vignettes by `devtools::install(build_vignettes = TRUE)`,
    and then use `browseVignettes("graphicalMCP")` to view the full list
    of vignettes

# Related work

-   Graphical MCPs - [gMCP](https://cran.r-project.org/package=gMCP)
-   Lighter version of `gMCP` which removes the rJava dependency -
    [gMCPLite](https://cran.r-project.org/package=gMCPLite)
-   Graphical MCPs with Simes tests -
    [lrstat](https://cran.r-project.org/package=lrstat)

Built upon these packages, we hope to implement graphical MCPs in a more
general framework, with fewer dependencies and simpler S3 classes, and
without losing computational efficiency.

# Acknowledgments

Along with the authors and contributors, thanks to the following people
for their suggestions and inspirations on the package:

Frank Bretz, Willi Maurer, Ekkehard Glimm, Nan Chen, Jeremy Wildfire,
Spencer Childress, Colleen McLaughlin, Matt Roumaya, Chelsea Dickens,
Nan Xiao, Keaven Anderson, and Ron Yu

We owe a debt of gratitude to the authors of
[gMCP](https://cran.r-project.org/package=gMCP) for their pioneering
work, without which this package would not be nearly as extensive as it
is.
